Hi, I'm the Doctor Bueno and this is
Medicina Clara, your channel of medicine in Internet.
In Medicina Clara, we will explain in a clear, simple and concise  way,
different aspects of medicine that you can not understand clearly.
Today we are going to talk about hernias.
Hernias are such a frequent process that everyone wants to know about them,
but in the end when they diagnose you, you see yourself at the operating room table,
many questions that you would have liked to ask your surgeon start to arise.
What will happen to me?
How will the treatment be?
Will it hurt?
How is the postoperative going to be?
Am I going to be comfortable?
Am I going to be able to do the same sport?
Will I be able to work quickly? ...
We will solve it today.
But ... what is a hernia?
A hernia is a lump that
It appears in one of our body zones.
Usually, this lump appears in the groin or in the navel,
which are the most frequent places of appearance of a hernia.
That lump is no more than our guts squeezing out through a hole.
Imagine that by any of these holes that we have inside our body,
that are natural, that are prepared so that
many structures go from one side to another,
It has gotten bigger.
As our  guts grow bigger they see that there is a weakness and they want to go out over there.
In this way, we would have our hole and press.
When this is the case, absolutely nothing happens, we do not have a hernia, but if our hole
gets bigger for many reasons, such as a
weakness, such as an effort, coughing, our guts are going
to squeeze out through that hole and then We, on the outside, are going to notice this bulge.
How do we diagnose a patient having a hernia?
It is not the same to have a hernia in the groin, a hernia in the navel,
having a diaphragmatic hernia, or having a herniated disc,
are totally different things.
We are going to talk about abdominal hernias, that is, those that appear
in our gut, in our groins.
It will be diagnosed through the surgeon.
The surgeon will simply place us standing, will make us cough and will feel
that lump and that lump will bring it back in,
with certain maneuvers.
It is a clinical concept.
Usually he does not need any other proof.
Do not ask for it, because it is clearly,
it is determined that it is a hernia.
If there are doubts, or it is not very clear, or the lump is very small, or is difficult to palpate,
our surgeon will ask for an ultrasound.
That ultrasound will determine if there is a hernia or not.
If it hurts for that reason or it hurts because you have tendonitis, inflammation,
pubalgia, etc ...
Usually with the clinical diagnosis, that is, with the exploration and with the
questions that your surgeon will ask you, this will determine what is a hernia
and you
will propose surgical treatment.
But what happens after surgery, does it hurt?
Can you continue doing your activity?
Currently there are two types of interventions, one that is simply sewing that hole
and the other is to place a mesh.
Most of the processes are with the placement of meshes.
But the operation is not without complications.
They are usually minor complications, increased fluid in the wound,
infection a bit of bleeding, although it may have some major complications such as
mesh infections or rejection of it.
Do not worry, your doctor will explain it to you,
ask him the  relevant  questions and operate.
This has been Clear Medicine with the Good Doctor.
I hope this video has solved the doubts you had.
Of course, that this explanation does not
replace the advice of your specialist doctor
Trust your criteria and remember that you can follow us through our
facebook and twitter accounts.
You can also subscribe to our clear medicine channel on YouTube
for that you can send us the topics that you want us to discuss.
This is Clear Medicine and I am the Good Doctor.
An understandable medicine
It is possible and necessary.
Thank you so much